So what is a MAC address.
A MAC address is a synonym for media access control and compared to IP addresses.
It is a unique address that is hardcoded into our network interface cut and that is the case for both
our cable card and our wireless card meaning that it is a unique physical address.
And as you see on the picture right here it is shown as a hexadecimal format.
Again you will know about hex.
This month formal in the last lecture part two where we discussed it.
And whereas IP addresses were in the layer tree of the assigned model.
This is layer to so who choose this MAC address since it is a unique hard coded address.
It is the companies that produces the network cards that we have in our computers and devices that has
a different range based on the producer.
So each producer of network cards have a certain range that they can give addresses in that in between
that space.
So you can actually look up your MAC address and see who produced your network card.
You can do so by using the first command on a Windows IP config slash all that will give you this physical
address right here.
Then you can copy this address and into this you will write here and then you will see similar information
like this.
So here I see what company produced and what address they have and what range of MAC addresses they
are capable to give.
So this is a quick way to look up some more information about it it cut and what range ranges is used
by that company.
So what is this MAC address.
Useful without the MAC addresses our computer would not be able to identify themselves on a network
before they get an IP.
That means that when you set up your network for the first time and you just take your computers and
couple them into around us or switches no eyepiece has been distributed to no devices really no.
Who do other devices are.
So in order to get the eyepiece your device will most likely ask you a router or the HP for IP and then
it will reply with an IP that is free on this network and then your computer will simply say fine I
will take this IP and then the DCP will notify that.
But in order for that communication to happen the router and device need to understand who each other.
So they will use the Mac addresses.
So until the IP is defined it is the MAC address that is used to communicate between.
So before we jump to the next part which is switches roads and bridges which will give you a better
understanding of a picture like this as you see we have switches we have routers and we have a lot of
multiple devices connected.
We need to quickly discussed some of the cost measures we have.
So we have unique cast in our network.
We have multicast and we have broadcast so unique cast is a one to one communication meaning that one
device is communicating with another device.
So once one then we have multicast meaning that one device like this one is just communicating with
multiple devices so it is casting out some information and multiple devices are getting that information
and then we have the last one which is broadcast and that is that meaning that any computer in the broadcast
domain is getting this message thrown at them.
So if you see this as a network then the broadcast domain is all the computers and devices that can
be reached reached by the MAC address meaning that it is internally within a router.
So for example in this one right here we have a router right here and then we have a lot of devices.
So a broadcast of all these devices could be able to reach each other but they will not be able to reach
the devices on the Internet because they are simply not in the broadcast domain because they can simply
be read by their MAC address.
They will need to be read through the router and then the public ip of whatever router or this nation
they have.
So now that we know about IP addresses MAC addresses and a different cost measures it is time to move
over to switches routers bridges and I will see you in the next lecture.